# Promise: A Blockchain for Verbal Contracts.

## TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION

Our research team has chosen to embark on an original project that aims to revolutionize the way that verbal agreements and oral contracts are made. Making informal agreements is so prevalent in our global society that many often neglect to take into consideration the ramifications that such agreements can hold. These agreements tend to resemble the following form --- “May I borrow some money to get gas? I will pay you back.” Our team confidently conjectures that the vast majority of the world’s population has engaged in this sort of impromptu agreement. Now that we have established that these agreements are frequently made, what happens in situations when they are kept and when they are broken? After the completion of the agreed upon terms, if the agreement is kept, both parties are able to walk away content. However, if a disagreement arises about the exact details of the unwritten agreement, both parties will likely walk away aggrieved or end up on opposite sides of a formal lawsuit. With our technological innovation, we aim to put an end to the majority of lawsuits that stem from the broken terms of an oral contract. The system we will create will allow users to quickly and easily generate a binding agreement between two or more parties, and these agreements will be authenticated by a blockchain.

# TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES AND CHALLENGES

For this oral contracts distributed ledger, we will use an existing blockchain platform. There are two platforms we are considering for this project: Ethereum or ResilientDB. With ResilientDB, we may have to enhance the smart contract feature to fulfill our requirements; whereas using Ethereum gives us access to their highly developed smart contracts. It is imperative that we use a blockchain for this system to ensure the immutability of the agreements laid out between parties. As is the function of a blockchain, once a contract has been recorded inside the blockchain, it will be very difficult to change. Thus, the parties that have entered into the contract can feel confident that they have some form of protection from those acting in bad faith. The data stored in individual blocks on the blockchain will consist of details about an agreement, such as the parties involved, and the terms and conditions. After the information concerning an agreement has reached consensus, it will be added to the blockchain and be considered binding and irreversible.

Smart contracts are transaction protocols that are stored inside of the blockchain. What separates smart contracts from traditional contracts is that smart contracts do not require a third party intermediary to handle agreements. Sharing attributes with the blockchain, smart contracts are both immutable and distributed, meaning that they cannot be changed and the results of a contract are validated by every node on a network. We can design the smart contracts so that they can easily verify and enforce the terms of an agreement. The smart contract will be digitally signed by all parties entering into an agreement, and the terms will be carried out once the stated obligations have been fulfilled. Since we may be using Ethereum as the blockchain platform, Solidity will be the programming language used to write these smart contracts as it is most commonly used for this purpose. We also may use one of the various library collections designed for interacting with the Ethereum blockchain network, such as Web3.js, Web3.py, or Webj. 

# MARKET OPPORTUNITY

Our team feels strongly that this project will be an invaluable tool to people everywhere. On any given day, whether it be at work, at a social event, or at home, it is near impossible to avoid conversations involving agreements. These agreements can range from formal situations like signing a rental lease to less formal situations like asking to borrow money that will be paid back later. There are many electronic document signing services tailored to companies or individuals who need formal contracts signed, with specific terms and conditions that cannot be violated. However, the system that we plan to develop is tailored to individuals who encounter informal agreements that come about in casual conversation. In order to avoid situations in which these agreements are broken, the platform that we create can put both parties at ease in a quick and secure way. Simple contracts can be quickly created on the spot to easily legitimize both parties’ agreements. Informal agreements are almost as ubiquitous as speech itself, we are positive that this system will soon become essential to everyday life.
